I am Deb Schmitt I haven't senior
consultant with admissions consultants
and I've been involved with college
admissions for 30 years now I've worked
at Carleton College in Minnesota and
Cornell University in New York and I've
also worked as a writer for the College
Board I had loved how many families and
students make this really special and
important transition in their life and I
look forward to working with you when I
served as an admissions officer at
Cornell I was often asked how we decided
between two of identical candidates
I always responded that no two
candidates are identical even if they
happen if I the same test scores as the
ngpa that the same number of AP classes
from the same high school and the same
it could occur given to me in fact
everyone is different and everyone has
so contrary to what many other state
selective college admission is not just
numbers and though many complain about
having to take the SAT or ECT and
seeming importance to college admissions
the music the simple truth is that is
just one of many elements that
admissions committees answer but they
also look at your transcript including
the quality of your high school and the
level of difficulty of the classes of
extracurricular activities and work
experience letters of recommendation
supplemental information and as me if
your scores and grades both look good
then readers quickly move on to the
other aspects of Education and that is
where you'll be able to distinguish
yourself from other key the recent top
schools admit so many candidates with
excellent grades and scores is because
of the overall high quality of the
applicants but some admits they have
excellent scores that offset lower GPAs
especially in a rigorous program that
had a school known to have little grade
inflation if for example you have much
lower test scores that you're
transferring
just be sure to enlist teachers to
recommend you who had senior
intellectual curiosity and academic
strength displayed in a classroom size
and be sure to ask them to make a point
of that in the recommendation that they
write if you've been involved and only a
few extra curricular activities in high
school be sure to explain why such as
you held a job with significant powers
required or what you spent your time on
and said are you an avid reader home
cook yoga expert animal trader in charge
of younger siblings after school in
general think about how to overcome a
weakness by showing remarkable strengths
and talents in other areas all our
limits and a clear vision of why they
wanted to attend Cornell what made them
unique and how they would contribute to
the campus once they were admitted
admissions committees need to be
convinced that you will make a strong
contribution to the program and add to
the diverse experiences of the other
students and that is why the essays are
your best opportunity to show the case
but beyond the numbers if you have any
questions about this topic or any other
issues about your college applications
be sure to give us a call at admissions
at zones seven oh three to four to five
eight five good luck